---
title: "Clusters"
---

## Architect agent

In order for Architect to interact with your cluster, while maintaining a high
level of security, when you register your cluster we install an agent that
interacts with your cluster on Architect's behalf. This application creates a
secure connection using SSL over HTTP2 with the Architect servers that allows us
to send commands to the cluster remotely. This means at no time do we ever store
the credentials for your cluster anywhere in our infrastructure.

## Cluster applications

Cluster applications are required for your applications to be run properly by
Architect. When a cluster is created, you'll be prompted to allow Architect to
install them on your behalf. These applications include a load balancer,
certificate management, and more. No configuration of these applications is
required.

## Cluster environments

A cluster environment is similar to a namespace, and enables logical separation
of deployed components. One cluster can have many environments, and all
applications deployed to a cluster's related environments will be deployed to
the same Kubernetes cluster. A common use of environments is to share resources
of one cluster between many different
[preview environments](/deployments/automated-previews) which can be created and
destroyed by a CI system at will. Creating a cluster with a single environment
to host a production application is another common use case.

## Testing

When an Architect account is created, it will automatically have the Architect
public cluster added to it. This cluster will appear as "architect" on the
clusters page of the Architect Cloud or when the command `architect clusters` is
run from the [Architect CLI](https://github.com/architect-team/architect-cli).
This cluster is shared between all Architect Cloud users and is only intended
for testing. As such, applications deployed to environments on the public
cluster will be torn down 24 hours after the last pipeline was run. In order to
allow a good experience for all users on this shared cluster, some features are
not enabled, such as component scaling and resource (CPU and memory)
configuration.

## Production

When an application is ready for a production deployment, Architect recommends
that a private cluster be created and used on your cloud provider of choice. It
can be added to the Architect Cloud as a cluster with the command

```
architect cluster:create <cluster-name> --kubeconfig <kubeconfig-file-path>
```

Once the cluster applications have been installed, create an environment on the
new cluster with the command

```
architect environment:create <environment-name> --cluster <cluster-name>
```

That's it! You now have a production-grade cluster ready to host your
components.
